= Serve Quickstart - Prototyping Rails Applications


<b>This is tutorial is incomplete. Help us finish it!</b>

Serve is a rapid prototyping framework for Rails applications. It is designed to compliment Rails development and enforce a strict separation of concerns between designer and developer. Using Serve with Rails allows the designer to happily work in his own space creating an HTML prototype of the application, while the developer works on the Rails application and copies over HTML from the prototype as needed. This allows the designer to focus on presentation and flow while the developer can focus on the implementation.

Let's have a look at how it all works.


== Installation

To get started we need to download and install the Ruby gem for Serve:

 $ sudo gem install serve

After we've done that it's probably a good idea to install a couple of additional gems so that Serve will play nicely with HAML, Markdown, and Textile:

 $ sudo gem install haml BlueCloth RedCloth


== Project Directory Structure

Once we have everything installed the next thing to do is setup the project directory. I like to setup my projects with the following directory structure:

artwork      :: Logos and other identity design files go here
mockups      :: Fireworks or Photoshop web app mockups go here
prototype    :: The HTML prototype for the web app goes here
application  :: The actual Rails application is here

Let's go ahead and setup the directory for the prototype. We'll use the `serve create` command to create the initial project directory and files:

 $ serve create prototype

This should output:

 create  prototype
 create  prototype/public
 create  prototype/tmp
 create  prototype/views
 create  prototype/config.ru
 create  prototype/LICENSE
 create  prototype/.gitignore
 create  prototype/compass.config
 create  prototype/README.markdown
 create  prototype/public/images
 create  prototype/public/javascripts
 create  prototype/public/stylesheets
 create  prototype/sass
 create  prototype/sass/application.sass
 create  prototype/views/_layout.html.erb
 create  prototype/views/hello.html.erb
 create  prototype/views/view_helpers.rb
 create  prototype/views/index.redirect

You'll note that the `serve create` command creates a directory structure that is somewhat similar to a Rails project:

  prototype/
    |
    +-- config.ru              # Rack configuration file
    |
    +-- compass.config         # Compass configuration file
    |
    +-- public/                # Directories for static assets
    |    |
    |    +-- stylesheets/      # Compiled stylesheets
    |    |
    |    +-- images/
    |    |
    |    `-- javascripts/
    |
    +-- sass/                  # Store Sass source files here
    |    |
    |    `-- application.sass  # Example Sass file for application
    |
    +-- tmp/                   # Needed for Passenger (mod_passenger)
    |    |
    |    `-- restart.txt
    |
    `-- views/                 # Store your ERB, Haml, etc. here
         |
         +-- _layout.html.erb  # Example layout
         |
         +-- hello.html.erb    # Example view
         |
         `-- view_helpers.rb   # Example view helpers

Views and layouts for your prototype application belong in the "views" directory. The "public" directory is for static assets -- resources like images or javascripts that don't need server side processing. The "sass" directory is the place where you should store Sass source files (if you use those). Serve will automatically compile Sass and SCSS files stored here into <tt>public/stylesheets</tt> directory.


== Creating Our First Screen

Now that we have the prototype directory set up, let's create our first page so that you can get a feel for how Serve works. This will be a simple HTML login page for our application.

In the "views" directory, create a file named "login.html.erb" and insert the following source code:

 <form action="/dashboard/" method="put">
   <p>
     <label for="username">Username</label>
     <input type="text" name="username" id="username" />
   </p>
   <p>
     <label for="password">Password</label>
     <input type="password" name="password" id="password" />
   </p>
   <p>
     <input type="submit" value="Login" />
   </p>
 </form>


== Starting Serve

To view our login page in a Web browser, we need to start up Serve in the directory where we are building the prototype:

 % cd prototype
 % serve
 [2008-02-23 15:19:05] INFO  WEBrick 1.3.1
 [2008-02-23 15:19:05] INFO  ruby 1.8.6 (2007-09-24) [universal-darwin9.0]
 [2008-02-23 15:19:05] INFO  Serve::Server#start: pid=5087 port=4000
 ...

Once you execute the `serve` command it will launch a mini Web server for the prototype and will output a noisy log of any activity. (To stop the command at any point simply switch back to the command line and press Ctrl+C.)

By default the `serve` command automatically serves files from the directory that it is started in over port 4000 on your local machine. To access the the prototype in your Web browser go to:

 http://localhost:4000

Now navigate to the following URL:

  http://localhost:4000/login/

You should see the contents of the login page. Note that Serve allows you to refer to pages without their extension. This allows you to use URLs in your documents that correspond to the URLs that Rails uses by default.


== Layouts

One thing to note about the source that I gave you for the login page. I intentionally left out the <html>, <head>, and <body> tags because they belong a layout---not the source file. Let's go ahead and define that layout now.

Replace the contents of the file named "_layout.html.erb" in the "views" directory of your prototype with the following:

 <html>
   <head>
     <title><%= @title %></title>
   </head>
   <body>
     <h1><%= @title %>/h1>
     <%= yield %>
   </body>
 </html>

This layout includes a small amount of ERB. ERB stands for Embedded Ruby. ERB allows you to embed Ruby code into a web page to dynamically render content. In our case, we are using it in the layout to indicate the title of the web page and to insert the content of the page at the appropriate point. You can use ERB in layout or view files.

Embedded Ruby is delineated with the opening and closing sequence <% and %> respectively. Sequences that begin with an addition equals sign insert their output directly into the HTML. In this case we want to render the @title variable as the title in the head and as the first heading in the document body. The `yield` keyword is used to insert the content of the page at that point.

We need to make one small change to our login page before continuing. Insert the following line at the top of login.html.erb file:

 <% @title = "Login" %>

This will set the @title variable for the login page. Now, switch back to your Web browser and navigate to:

 http://localhost:4000/login/

The page should now have a title and heading that both read "Login".

== Content regions with `content_for`

Let's add a sidebar to the login page. To do this in a layout friendly way, we will use the `content_for` helper method to define the sidebar.

Add the following code to the bottom of login.html.erb:

 <% content_for :sidebar do %>
   <h3>New Around Here?</h3>
   <p>No problem! Just <a href="/signup/">create an account</a>.</p>
 <% end %>

This defines a new content region of the page that we can render wherever we want in the layout. The :sidebar symbol defines the name of the content region.

Now to modify the layout to work with this new content region. In _layout.html.erb replace the code:

 <h1><%= @title %>/h1>
 <%= yield %>

With the following:
 
 <div id="content">
   <h1><%= @title %>/h1>
   <%= yield %>
 </div>
 <div id="sidebar">
   <%= yield :sidebar %>
 </div>

This defines two new divs for the content and sidebar portions of the document. The first call to `yield` renders the content portion of a view (everything apart from regions defined by calls to `content_for`). The second call to `yield` passes the name of our content region as a symbol. When yield is called with a symbol, it renders the associated content region. In our case `yield :sidebar` causes Serve to render the content that we defined for the :sidebar region at that point in the layout.

Now add a block for inline styles to the "head" of the layout:

 <styles>
   #content { float: left;  width: 60%; }
   #sidebar { float: right; width: 40%; }
 </styles>

We could certainly put this in it's own file (in the public/stylesheets directory), but for the purposes of this demonstration, it works just as well in the head of the document.

The full layout file should now look like this:

 <html>
   <head>
     <title><%= @title %></title>
     <styles>
        #content { float: left;  width: 60%; }
        #sidebar { float: right; width: 40%; }
      </styles>
   </head>
   <body>
     <div id="content">
       <h1><%= @title %>/h1>
       <%= yield %>
     </div>
     <div id="sidebar">
       <%= yield :sidebar %>
     </div>
   </body>
 </html>

Now switch back to your Web browser at:

  http://localhost:4000/login/

And check out the new multi-column layout on the login page.


== Partials

<%= render 'footer' %>

== View Helpers

view_helpers.rb

This tutorial is incomplete. Patches are welcome!
